import { Callout } from "nextra/components";

<aside>
  <Callout>
    Optimizing Your Documentation Experience: The tutorial is intended to be
    read sequentially, with each section building upon the previous one. Once
    you have completed the tutorial, feel free to explore the
    [advanced](/advanced/multiple-override-node) documentation in any order you
    prefer.
  </Callout>
</aside>

# The Slot Pattern

The slot pattern enables you to break down parent-provided content into multiple
parts and instruct a component on where to render each part by placing slots.

In a typical React component, this is accomplished using 'render props.'
Components receive different parts of content as props and render each one in
their specified slots. For instance, a typical `Button` component might accept
**children**, **leftIcon**, and **rightIcon** props, rendering them in their
predetermined places if provided.

With `react-slots`, we don't use props to define slot content; everything is
managed through `children`.

## Writing Slotted Components

To begin placing slots, you need to use the `useSlot` hook. `useSlot` takes in
the children and returns a `slot` object for this component. `slot` is a dynamic
object, where any key gives you access to corresponding parent-provided content.
Values on the `slot` object are just like any other React element. You can place
these elements wherever you want inside the component.

Let's implement the `Button` component using `react-slots`:

```jsx
import { useSlot } from "@beqa/react-slots";

function Button({ children, onClick }) {
  const { slot } = useSlot(children);

  return (
    <button onClick={onClick}>
      <span className="left">
        <slot.leftIcon />
      </span>
      <slot.default />
      <span className="right">
        <slot.rightIcon />
      </span>
    </button>
  );
}
```

Here, you can see that we divided the children into three parts: `leftIcon`,
`rightIcon`, and `default`. This means the parent now has to somehow specify
contents for each of these to replace the slots inside the component.

## Using Slotted Components

When passing children to this component, you need a way to designate which
elements are for the `leftIcon`, `rightIcon`, and `default` slots. You achieve
this by adding a `slot-name` attribute to any element or component passed to the
`Button` as children (note: elements marked with `slot-name` must be direct
children of the `Button`). **The `default` slot is special because any top-level
node lacking a `slot-name` attribute automatically lands in the `default`
slot.**

Let's create an "[ Add + ]" button using this component:

```jsx
import Button from "./Button.jsx";

function SomeComponent() {
  return (
    <div>
      Add item to My collection?
      <Button>
        Add
        <span slot-name="rightIcon" className="my-plus-icon">
          +
        </span>
      </Button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

The rendered HTML from this component will look like this:

```jsx
<div>
  Add item to My collection?
  <button>
    <span class="right" />
    Add
    <span class="right">
      <span class="my-plus-icon"> + </span>
    </span>
  </button>
</div>
```

As you can see, some interesting things have happened here:

- The slot for `leftIcon` didn't render anything because it wasn't specified by
  the parent.
- The slot for `rightIcon` rendered the parent's `span` and removed the
  `slot-name` attribute from the final HTML output.
- The default slot rendered a string "Add" implicitly because it did not have
  the "slot-name" attribute.

<Callout type="info">
  There are two more ways to specify slot content from the parent which are
  explored in detail in their dedicated sections:
  [Templates](/tutorial/templates), [Type-safe
  templates](/tutorial/type-safety/#the-createtemplate-type)
</Callout>

## Why not just use props?

- Slots offer a convenient syntactic sugar for providing fallbacks and passing
  the props up.
- `react-slots` draws inspiration from
  [Web components](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/slot),
  which is HTML's proposed standard for creating HTML-like elements. With
  `react-slots`, you can design components that function similarly to native
  HTML elements.
- By enforcing the restriction that `children` is for specifying content and
  props are for modifying content, `react-slots` allows you to grant parents the
  freedom to specify free-form content and own their own markup. Simultaneously,
  it enables you to enforce strict relationships for composed elements with
  [OverrideNode](/tutorial/manipulating-slot-content).
